To understand which tools we might need,
let's dig into these potential limitations we might face with basic Javascript projects as we use them
thus far throughout the course.
For example we might need to micromanage all our imports if we're not using Javascript modules or if
we are using them as you saw and as I just explained in the last lecture, we might have a lot of unnecessary
HttpRequests.
So that's one problem we have,
not ideal,
the bigger our project grows, the more we have to manage imports or live with all these requests or both
at the same time.
Another problem we might face at some point which I briefly touched on in the library's section of this
course is that our code is not really optimized,
it's not as small as it could be. Now
thus far we haven't built huge applications in this course but we've certainly written some code.
Now when we write code, we of course use function names which are pretty clear,
we use the variable names which give a clear hint about what's stored in there,
we use a lot of extra whitespace to structure our code or put in other words, we're using a lot of features
that make the code more readable to us humans but which are not important to the computer.
If we would strip out all these features and ship as small of a code bundle as possible, we could load
our page faster because the computer, the browser has to download less bytes.
if we would use shorter function names, then there are less bytes to be downloaded and therefore
the site loads faster but of course to us humans, if we use very short function names like A, B, C, D,
well that would be hard to understand our code so that's something where a tool might be able to help
us. Another potential problem we'll face
and I'll dig deeper into that in a separate course section actually is browser support.
Now as I just said, I do have a browser support section in this course where we take a closer look at
this.
Generally, the problem is that we of course want to use all the latest and greatest Javascript features
when we write code. Well the problem with that is that not all these latest and greatest features are
supported by all browsers.
So in an ideal world, we can write code that uses all these latest features and we can ship code, which
means we can upload code to our web server that actually is a bit older,
so that works on more browsers so that our modern code is maybe automatically translated to older code,
would be amazing if we had a tool for that.
We also, when we write code, when we work on our application, constantly need to reload the web page to
see our changes in effect,
wouldn't it be great if we did not only have a development server but actually a development server
that automatically reloads the page whenever the code changes?
That would be amazing, right?
It can really speed up your development time, your development flow if that happens, if you don't have
to manually press that reload button all the time, so that would be another improvement.
Having a development server which we already used but one which is a bit smarter and last but not least,
something we haven't really done thus far is checking our code quality. Now code quality is a broad term,
there are certain conventions which you should follow but there also are a lot of loose rules or a lot
of ideas and how you could write your code,
there isn't a single right or wrong way of writing code.
Still, you might want to be consistent, so it might be interesting if you could configure your code for
yourself and then automatically check it if your code follows the rules you set up for yourself to ensure
it is properly written and has a good quality.
So now we know about the limitations, the problems we might want to solve,
now it's time to solve them and for that, we can use various tools which thankfully were created and
do exist.
So let me walk you through the different problems we're trying to solve,
which tools can help us with that and why exactly we use that tool.
Important, for most of these tasks, we have more than one tool out there,
I'm walking you through the most popular and commonly used ones here,
of course you can always search for alternatives on your own then and find out if an alternative somehow
suits you better than the option
I'm giving you here. Now let's start with the development server for that.
Now the idea here is that we can serve our application under more realistic circumstances but also as
I just outlined, maybe that we can auto reload the page. Now for that
thus far we used serve and that did not auto reload the page,
now there are multiple alternatives to serve out there but one particularly interesting one is the
webpack
dev server and I'll come back to why that is so interesting in a second because it's closely related
to the second problem we want to solve,
we need a bundling tool.
The idea behind a bundling tool is that it analyzes all our imports and exports which we have when
we use Javascript modules and that it then combines these different files into a single bundled file
or into a couple of file bundles, so that you don't have these dozens of HttpRequests which need to be
sent but that you can write your code, split up across multiple files which makes it easier to use but
that that code
then before you upload it somewhere is actually merged back into a single file so that you have the
better development experience but ship code which requires less HttpRequests and here, the by far, most
popular tool is webpack. Now webpack of course is related to the webpack
dev server, that simply is the development server that is particularly easy to implement inside of a
webpack setup and I'll walk you through such a basic webpack setup in this module.
So now we can bundle our code, we can serve our code,
we also typically want to optimize our code when we ship it or when we build it for production,
so when we're ready to deploy it onto our real server. During development you typically don't really
care about such optimizations,
they might even be bad because your code might be harder to debug in the development tools
if all the functions were renamed and so on but when you're ready for deploying it, then you want to
optimize your code.
That means you want to shorten function names, remove access whitespace, remove everything which doesn't
break your code
if you remove it and for that, again webpack fortunately already has a couple of plugins built in which
we can utilize to automatically optimize our code once we're ready to deploy it. Now that's the optimization,
we also might want to write modern code and ship code that also works on older browsers
and for that, we need a code compilation tool,
also transpilation called. That simply is a tool which takes our code and transpiles it to code
that also works on older browsers.
Now there, the most popular solution is Babel but we'll not dive into this right now,
instead we'll dive into this later in the browser support module because there's a bit more you need
to know about browser support and how to manage that before you can set up such a tool.
Now last but not least, you might want to check your code quality, so make sure that you follow certain
patterns and conventions, that you consistently write your code in the same way
and for that the most popular tool for Javascript is ESLint which you can also use.
Now I'll walk you through webpack, webpack optimization, webpack
dev server and ESLint in this module. As I mentioned, we'll have a look at Babel and this code compilation
in the browser support module.